### ECE 220 Honors Section
# MP1 - Parallel Accumulator

In this MP you will implement a parallel accumulator that calculates the sum of all numbers within a set of given files.

### General guidelines:  
1. Do not change thread_info.h as this file is automatically generated and used for graph functionality
2. You can vary the number of threads used in acc.h
3. Do not change any of the python (.py) files

---
### Usage:  

  1. generate 1,000,000 input data points separated in <number_of_threads> [1-99] files. Number of threads is specified below
    
    $ python3 generate_data.py <number_of_threads>
    
  2. compile program
    
    $ gcc acc_serial.c -g -o acc_serial
    $ gcc acc_parallel.c -g -lpthread -o acc_parallel

  3. run test program

    $ ./acc_serial
    $ ./acc_parallel

  4. automatically recompile and run both versions of the accumulator, compares the output and speedup

    $ python3 benchmark.py

  5. make a graph of running time vs number of threads used (requires matplotlib)

    $ python3 graph.py

---
### Programming Tasks:
1. Complete the sequential version of the accumulator in acc_serial.c  
2. Complete the parallel version of the accumulator in acc_parallel.c
3. Verify the two outputs for serial_output.txt and parallel_output.txt are the same.

### Report:
In your report answer the following questions and submit on Gradescope:

  1. Change the number of threads by generating new data, and change the number of threads in `acc.h`, discuss how changing the number of threads affects the runtime of your program

  2. Attach a screenshot of your `python3 benchmark.py` output for one of the number of threads you tried.

  3. Is the following statement true or false. "The more threads there are in my program, the better my program runs". Explain why.

  4. Attach the graph of running time vs number of threads used when running graph.py. 

---
##### End MP1H